After coming back from Poland I'm back at square one. It's as if I graduated school again and have to decide what's next. But this time it's without parents paying
for university and with an ongoing caution about conscription. 

I'm 21. I don't have much responsibilities. I have free shelter, free food, no assignments due, no pressure to "be on time". It's a great opportunity to address knowledge gaps (i.e., math) in preparation to a career of choice. But returns on foundational education come with delay; progress isn't as fast as it _"should"_ be. This feeling of stagnation raises questions about relevancy of educational material - "am I in tutorial hell?" Of course, to some degree everything is relevant, but life is finite, so some things are more relevant than others.

I think Peter Thiel once hinted that people derisk by replacing action with education. Pursuit of knowledge is virtuous, but marketplace rewards results, not potential. In contrast, Steve Jobs once said that you can't connect dots looking forwards, you can connect them only looking backwards. So should I pursue my curiosities and hope that dots will eventually connect? One approach is an aggressive, concentrated progress in a single domain. Going deep on things is a good advice to young people. Youngsters are flexible.

Potential alone, however, is insufficient for career success. It's important to communicate your value to the marketplace. There are plenty of smart people that act like the world will notice their brilliance and hand them an invitation to a dream life (the angel recruiter fallacy). People are busy; if there's no effort to get attention then there's no attention. Smart people don't like fighting for other people's attention because smart people have big egos. If left unaddressed, it's a recipe for bitterness. 

I've had my detours. Practically, I spent 20 of the last 24 months completing various tutorials/courses (but haven't made use of them). The Tutorial Hell is hell because you make effort but can't yet see the fruits. Solving linear equations is rewarding, but less rewarding than turning competency into income.  

In that theme, I'm steering away from peripheral curiosities to a focused, practical pursuit of necessary skills (read: no geometry). If I was less ambitious I would for sure get a small house in the woods of Oregon with a nice fireplace and ready hot chocolate, writing an OS in C and studying Physics. But I'm happy to make the necessary personal sacrifices to advance in my profession. So here's an updated version of my [learning plan](https://github.com/mmxvll/documented-progress/blob/main/weekly-reports/03-week-2024-12-24/learning-plan.md).
